In this diagram we see that we have created a Sam cluster.
We have three ESX I host is like size 0 1 0 2 0 3 and we've created our hand network and we've established
a VSE and closter.
So within a sand cluster we've got all of these local disk groups that comprise the actual storage capacity
of VSAN.
So in order to allow all of these hosts to communicate with each other and to leverage storage space
that is on the other hosts we need a fast network and that's what we have pictured here.
So first off we've got redundant 10 gig physical networks right.
This is the ideal configuration we want.
Number one we definitely want redundancy.
And number two we definitely want a 10 gig network because what we could have is you know VMI that are
running on one ESX host maybe over here but some of those VM files might be stored on another other
ESX I host.
So this needs to be fast like a storage network and all of the Vee's San traffic is going to flow over
a VM kernel port that has been specifically marked for VSE and traffic.
So if my VM is running on a host ESX size 0 1 and it needs to read or write to or from storage those
storage commands are going to hit my VCM VM kernel port there are going to flow over one of these adapters.
Through the physical network back up through a physical adapter on the destination host hit the vse
and VM kernel poor and then flow through to the destination object thats being stored in VCM.
And so that network needs to be fast.
Right you think about this is a virtual machine interacting with its virtual desk interacting with its
C-Drive that needs to be really low latency.
So we need a 10 gig network.
And in this scenario theres no load balancing across the two networks.
All right we're not going to be able to leverage no VM neck wan and VM Nicktoons simultaneously.
That's not the way it works.
So we're not going to be able to leverage both networks.
The second network connection is simply for redundancy purposes.
Right.
So now we have a physical switch failure or a VM neck failure.
We can tolerate those failures and our and our storage network will continue to function.
By the way if you're not aware of VM neck that's a physical ethernet adapter on an ESX host so you can
see on ESX Hiser one we've got one VM kernel port marked for VSE and and it is utilizing VM next zero
as its active adapter VM like one.
Maybe we set that up as a standby physical adapter in case VM like zero fails.
So let's take a look under the under the hood here and see how virtual machine objects are actually
stored on virtual sand.
The data that makes up a virtual machine is actually broken down into different objects.
One of those objects is going to be a VM DK.
Other objects include the swap file the whole namespace snapshots things like that there's multiple
objects that make up an individual VM.
And if you're interested in more on this feel free to reach out.
I teach Lively's and classes frequently there anyways so my virtual machine is broken down into multiple
objects and San then takes those objects and mirrors them across multiple ESX I hostes based on the
policies that we have defined right.
So maybe for example for VM one we're just going to get into the basics of how this works and I could
go super deep.
But for V.M. one maybe we have specified you know what VM one needs to tolerate one host failure.
So we are going to store VM one VM DK file here on ESX 02 and maybe that's the active VM DK file and
any time VM one needs to read or write from that desk it's using that VMT OK.
But then we're going to store a second copy of it over here on ESX Hiser or three.
All right.
And this is purely a mirror copy.
It's not used under normal circumstances but if ESX C02 were to if somebody were to spill a cup of coffee
directly on top of it and completely destroy that host Well the good news is we've still got a copy
of VM ones VM DK over here on ESX 0 3 and therefore that VM can continue to function.
So that's the that's the system of the San file system or it's a different file system is not VM fast
and it's called an object oriented file system where these objects are going to be striped and mirrored
across multiple hosts so that we can have a host failure without a massive impact.
Right.
It's actually called if you're familiar with a raid which is a Dundon array of inexpensive disks This
is called a rain array or redundant array of inexpensive notes and essentially doing the same thing
that you would do across a RAID array of disks.
We're doing that across a array of ESX hosts.
All right.
So let's take a little bit of a look at at how the Flash Player impacts operations right.
So we're going to assume in this scenario that we are using a hybrid configuration.
Again what the hybrid configuration means we're using one SSD per disk group that has our Flash Player.
Here's my SSD for a disk group.
ESX I there were two.
And another SS DE-ANNE ESX 0 3.
We've got a disk group on each of those hosts right.
And this is a hybrid configuration.
So the capacity devices are traditional magnetic hard disks.
So that's our configuration we're in a hybrid.
We're using SSD which we have to for the reader cache and write buffer.
And our capacity devices are hard disk drives.
So what's going to happen by default here is those SS DS 70 percent of their capacity is going to be
used as a read cache and the read cache houses all of the most frequently read data.
So if a virtual machine is to read some data and that data is served up by the read cache latency is
going to be very very low.
There's a directory service that runs in the cluster to track all of the data that's stored in the read
cache.
So for example let's say that VM one needs to read some data from disk.
So here comes a read operation from VM one the read request hits the host where the data is stored and
if the data is stored on the SSD device that data is very quickly read and returned to the virtual machine.
Let's watch that again.
Here comes the read out of ESX 0 1 hits ESX 0 2 and is very rapidly returned.
Now if that data is not present in the read cache the process is going to be much much slower.
Because when the read hits Yes excise 0 2 it's going to hit the SSD.
It's not there.
So it has to retrieve that data from the much slower hard disk drive.
And therefore that read operation is going to be much slower.
So let's take a moment to think about this from an architectural perspective.
We know now that the hybrid configuration of virtual sand has a very high performance recap.
If the data that my virtual machines read is very consistent if all of my virtual machines are reading
some sort of common data like for example a parent virtual disk for a length clone or something like
that then this is a great use case because if we have a very consistent set of data that is frequently
read our read cache is going to be really high value.
We're going to satisfy a lot of reads from that cache.
And by the way the recommendation here is you should have at least 10 percent of your persistent storage.
You should have that much SSD.
Right so if we have a terabyte of hard disks we should have at least 100 gigabytes of SSD should and
should have at least 10 percent if you can get that ratio better than 10 percent.
Like maybe you have 200 gigs of SSD and one terabyte of physical storage.
Then your performance is only going to improve.
Right.
Anything you can do to push that.
That SSD percentage up higher is obviously a good thing with right operations.
We have 30 percent of the SSD set aside as a write buffer.
Right.
So all right operations are always going to hit the SSD.
That's what 30 percent of the SSD is set aside for that.
And it's kind of like I always compare it to like a library and whose shelves zero books for you.
Right.
So if you go into a library and you need to return a book you don't have to go into the library find
the shelf find the exact spot on the shelf and read shelf every book individually for yourself.
You can take a whole stack of books drop them off at the front desk and the library and I'll take care
of it.
So she acts as a write buffer or he or the librarian acts as a write buffer for us.
We can simply drop off the books and get out of there.
That's kind of like a write buffer for storage right.
Those right operations get dropped off at the SSD and that's it.
Right as far as our virtual machine is concerned.
Those right operations are complete.
The moment they hit that SSD now in the background the SSD has to reshelve those books right it's got
to actually write them to hard disk but our Vergine machine is unaware that that process has to occur.
So the write buffer basically makes all right operations act as if they're just a right to SSD.
OK so now you know some of the basics for these first six foundations exam.
And also this will spill well into the V V are certified professional exam as well.
So you know some of the basics and I wouldn't really expect the test to get any more deep than we have
gotten here.
So if you understand you know that you create a cluster of homes you enable the sand on it that you
can use flash devices as read cash and a write buffer that you can do it all flash configuration as
well if you want you should be in pretty good shape for the exam.